[DOCS] Add What's new (#152631)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/whats-new.asciidoc

[[whats-new]]
== What's new in {minor-version}

coming::[8.7.0]

Here are the highlights of what's new and improved in {minor-version}.
For detailed information about this release,
check the <<release-notes, release notes>>.

Previous versions: {kibana-ref-all}/8.6/whats-new.html[8.6] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.5/whats-new.html[8.5] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.4/whats-new.html[8.4] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.3/whats-new.html[8.3] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.2/whats-new.html[8.2]
| {kibana-ref-all}/8.1/whats-new.html[8.1] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.0/whats-new.html[8.0]

[discrete]
=== Discover: Break down the histogram by value
*Discover*

> adds capabilities for the user to resize the histogram and break down fields by value,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can now resize the histogram and break down fields by value,
```

which is often used for logs exploration. The updated histogram is especially useful for

> *Observability* use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Observability* use cases. For more information, check {kibana-ref}/discover.html[Discover].
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::https://images.contentstack.io/v3/assets/bltefdd0b53724fa2ce/blt46fc7c55a9f1fc21/640133897b2256107c86d31f/highlights-discover-histogram.gif[Break down the histogram in Discover by value]

[discrete]
=== Lens: Convert your visualizations
Convert your TSVB and aggregation-based visualizations to the drag-and-drop *Lens* visualization editor,
directly from your dashboards. In *Edit* mode, the TSVB and aggregation-based dashboard panels
that display a dot support the *Convert to Lens* functionality.
For more information, check {kibana-ref}/tsvb.html#edit-visualizations-in-lens[Open and edit TSVB visualizations in Lens]
and
{kibana-ref}/add-aggregation-based-visualization-panels.html#edit-agg-based-visualizations-in-lens[Open and edit aggregation-based visualizations in Lens].

[role="screenshot"]
image::https://images.contentstack.io/v3/assets/bltefdd0b53724fa2ce/blteea23d2cff80c4f4/64013478e70dd635488d0398/highlights-lens-convert.gif[Convert visualizations to Lens]

[discrete]
=== Dashboard

[discrete]
==== Time slider updates
Selecting just the right time range is now even easier with the improvements to the time slider control.

> Pin the start time to the beginning of your time range to show how data builds over a period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pin the start time to the beginning of your time range to show how data builds over a period of time. For more information, check {kibana-ref}/add-controls.html[Filter dashboard data with controls].
```

[discrete]
==== Complex filters
preview:[] Create and apply multiple filters simultaneously for nested queries,

> and use the logical OR and AND operators using the improved dropdown menu experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and use the logical OR and AND operators using the improved dropdown menu experience. For more information, check {kibana-ref}/kibana-concepts-analysts.html#autocomplete-suggestions[Additional filters with AND].
```

For detailed information about this release,
check the <<release-notes, release notes>>.

Previous versions: {kibana-ref-all}/8.6/whats-new.html[8.6] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.5/whats-new.html[8.5] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.4/whats-new.html[8.4] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.3/whats-new.html[8.3] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.2/whats-new.html[8.2]
| {kibana-ref-all}/8.1/whats-new.html[8.1] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.0/whats-new.html[8.0]

[discrete]

> === Discover: Break down the histogram by value

Author: @KOTungseth Can you please review the sections on Discover, Lens, and Dashboard?

[discrete]
==== Interactive chart filters

Filtering your data just got easier with interactive chart filters. When you right-click your chart data,
you can now select one or more filter values from the menu that appears, and link the filters with the OR operator.

[role="screenshot"]
image::https://images.contentstack.io/v3/assets/bltefdd0b53724fa2ce/blt1a969a88d51822a9/640139393acc576c5603410c/highlights-chart-filters.gif[Interactive chart filters]

[discrete]
=== Maps

[discrete]
==== Label positioning

Use the new *Label position* style setting to position labels above, below, or in the center of markers and icons.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/highlights-labels-maps.png[Label positioning in maps]

[discrete]
==== Hexagon clustering

Hexagon clustering was added to {kib} 8.2, but only for geo_point fields.
In 8.7, you can also use hexagon clustering for geo_shape fields.

[discrete]
==== Controls time slider

The *Maps* time slider now uses the controls time slider, which includes enhancements
such as pinning the start time. Refer
to {kibana-ref}/add-controls.html[Controls] for details.

[discrete]

> === Machine Learning

Author: @szabosteve Can you please review the section on Machine Learning?

This new view displays the total and available memory of your ML nodes,
the memory usage of the deployed trained models,
and active machine learning jobs.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/highlights-memory-usage.png[New view for memory usage by machine learning jobs]

[discrete]
==== Change point detection in AIOps Labs

preview:[] Change point detection identifies distribution changes, dips, spikes, and other
statistically significant change points in a metric. The *Change point detection* UI
visualizes the change points in a bucket identified by the change point aggregation.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/highlights-change-point-detection.png[New change point detection UI, width="75%"]

[discrete]
==== Field statistics in machine learning job and transform wizards

Now you are able to view the statistics of the selectable fields in the anomaly detection,
the data frame analytics, and the transforms wizards. The field statistics
provide more meaningful context to help you select relevant fields.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/highlights-jobs-multi-metric.png[New view of field statistics in machine learning jobs and transform wizards]

[discrete]

> === Alerting

Author: @lcawl Can you please review the section on Alerting?
